These are my personal views and expansions based on roniz's ideas so far.
As such there is a lot of crossover, so I recommend you read roniz's too
if you haven't done.

SETTING
Laingame will be set in a cyberpunk themed near future, where nation states
have dissolved, and major powers have been replaced by faceless, formless
organisations. As such, there will be no obvious concept of countries or
nationalities; and all conflict will be between organisations. (in this case
Private Military Corporations).

MECHANICS
Realtime strategy over IRC. Players submit their actions to an IRC bot.
Many actions can be performed at will, but some actions will use up a turn.
A turn can be defined as any period of time, likely ~24 hours so that the
game can be played across the globe without leaving anybody at a disadvantage.
At the end of each turn, the Major actions of every player are carried out by
the bot, and a new world state is created.

PLAYERS
Each player may control a PMC. The general goal is to own the most successful
PMC in the game universe, however the game shall be very open ended.
PMCs can perform contracts for international parties (bots), or perform
their own missions against other players' PMCs.
Players are able to communicate openly in the game channel, or privately
through IRC messaging.

DIPLOMACY
Roniz defined some aspects of diplomacy as variables, however I think the
real diplomacy will be up to the individual players. Obvious things like
player name, PMC name, PMC founding date can be displayed.
Alliances may be officially declared, which may have some legal implications.
An alliance may be required to fight together in 'war', and there may be
an enforced penalty for leaving or betraying allies.
Similarly, there should be a way to officially declare war against another
PMC. This may allow for more extreme measures, that would not be available
when not in a state of war (think of the Civilisation games).

ECONOMY
A pseudo currency, GDP is a measure of wealth. Growth defines overall profit
or loss per turn for a particular PMC. There may also be raw materials used
in construction/trading/contracts/etc.
It may be possible to buy shares in another PMC, opening up a much wider and
more complex economy meta-game, should players wish. This would also allow
players to become majority shareholders, and effectively buy out an enemy
PMC, claiming it for themselves. In cases such as these, perhaps they would
have the option to merge the PMC into theirs, or own both at a time.
Actual implementation for this may be tricky, so we'll see.

MILITARY
Infantry - Soldiers for military operations.
ATVs - Support attacks and allow for faster response times.
Airforce - Support for air strikes and even faster response times.
SpecOps - Special operatives for specialised missions/actions.
Vehicles - Vehicles for specialised missions/actions.
Consumables - Amount of resources consumed (oil, ammo, food, etc.)

MARKET
Could include all raw materials, military resources.
Direct trades with other players, or preset trades with bots.
Access to stockmarket to buy and sell shares.

ACTIONS
Major - One Major action may be performed a turn.
    Declare War - Officially declare war on a PMC
    Request Alliance - Request an official alliance with a PMC

Minor - Each minor action may be performed once a turn.
    Missile Strike - Fire a missile at unit.
    Airstrike - Launch an airstrike at unit.

Passive - These actions may be performed at any time.
    Buy - buy a commodity/resource
    Sell - sell a commodity/resource
    Show <x> - Various information screens (messaged to player)

COMBAT SYSTEM
Possibly have a number of units that can be controlled through minor actions.
A simple case of "whoever has the most troops wins" seems unbalanced, and
micro management should be allowed where possible.
Potentially a basic MUD-like interface for managing troops? i.e. units
could be moved to locations, and perform actions at those locations. Where
locations are battlefields, rival PMCs, places of interest, etc.
As an example, there could be a location with 5 Red PMC units, and Blue
PMC move 6 units there. Blue declares an attack, and has a higher chance of
winning due to having more soldiers.
Attack chances can be based on many things, mainly number of units in area,
strength of units, morale, unit hunger; we could go crazy with micro management
here, so please stop me.
